You know, I thought games were dead. I just didn't know what the fuck had
happened with this generation. When everything was first being announced, I
thought it was going to be incredible. Everything seemed so organic and free.
They'd show videos of "gameplay" where awesome situations would occur; things
like running from zombies into a house, only for the floor to break out from
under you, causing a fall into the basement with worse baddies. I really
thought it would be the future of games, but flash forward and those games
actually got into my hands. I was mortified. The above situation, which I
thought was so personal, was actually a forced, scripted scenario. You had to
go into the house, and the floor would always break. Bullshit. Games weren't
getting more expansive, they were narrowing. They were even getting easier.
Fuck it all, I didn't want these types of games.

But everyone else did. These games sold like crazy.

So I really thought games were dead. Why fucking play a game that plays itself?
The bigger budgets just added bigger flash to the scripts, and the huge teams
took out any personal touch or soul. I was looking forward to the future so
much, but what I ended up wanting was to go back to the past. I didn't think
I'd ever get to, though.

Then, I discovered Deadly Premonition. It gave me hope. I'm not sure I've ever
played a game with so much heart and soul. It brought me back to a day before
extensive focus groups and publisher influence. You know, reviewers used to
complain about "bad controls" all the time; today, pretty much every
third-person game controls the same. Well, Deadly Premonition has ass controls,
and it feels fucking great.

But there's so much more to it than that. Twin Peaks' association aside, this
game has an incredibly unique and lovable cast of characters. The setting is
absolutely charming. The choice of where and when additional detail is included
is jarring in the most perfect way. Which other game lets you use turn signals
when driving a car? But its not the little things that make Deadly Premonition
a good game, it's how they all come together to create a whole that is so much
bigger than the sum of its parts.

I didn't need to make this post for Deadly Premonition to be Greenlit. By now,
the internet at large either loves the game or knows they're supposed to.
However, I feel I need to say that it's exactly what I always thought a game
should be; a word of passion from a developer, something made because he (or
she) wanted to have it made. It feels so different than your traditional big
budget title, while maintaining a level of polish that separates it from what
you get out of indie titles. I hope that, once this game makes it onto Steam,
you all will play it to see what I mean.
